thank you madam Speaker matter I wish to
clarify a few points first of all the
reason why I decided to focus my speech
on construction constructive politics
because I thought there was an important
issue that we should look at that's what
I say in my speech syllabi is becoming
more diversify there'll be different
views and moving forward how the
government would do and accommodate
different views and different
perspective as monopolies is important
for us to move forward together as one
United people and the other MPs on the
workers party will be talking about
different issues you would never cover I
mean
ranging from social issues social safety
net through Foreign Affair national
security they will cover the full range
of areas and they buy we speak our job
our focus on constructive politics I
thought it was an important issue and of
course it's important to also understand
what is the perspective our PAP in terms
of constructive politics and from what
the plan ministers say it seems to me
that resmoke instructor d-theta on the
top of the PAP rather than constructive
politics in terms of the society that's
moving forward and I have a fun my
endorsement to what the president I say
that we should look at the outcome of
constructive politics that is that we
should be able to move forward together
despite the differences next is talking
about the workers puppy pick topping on
foreign workers issue I say again I
don't think we have thick plot I have
explained in this house of some
misunderstanding
of the species that had big and in any
case I also know that when the PAP have
to make a policy u-turn they call it
policy shift I don't know whether there
is a sheep or is of people I think the
record will speak for itself when we
make a shift we acknowledge a shift when
the workers party changes position they
pretend they haven't that is a
difference
now as for delegating responsibility for
different parts of a budget speech to a
different MPs that entirely within mr.
Lawry accounts prerogative it's not for
me to suggest how he should conduct his
affairs in the Workers Party but there's
a leader you do have a responsibility to
state where does the party stand on the
big issue somebody can take out look
after health care somebody can take care
of transport somebody can spend all his
time marking Minister Hanks we care on
education but where do you stand on what
the government is doing is the
government doing right is it doing wrong
do you agree with the government do you
have a better view or do you abstain or
you abstain from abstaining
mr. Liu chicken well um I think our
position is quite clear on many of these
issues if the Prime Minister wanted my
view on what the government has been
doing and whether he has done well I'll
say well we have soft some of the
problems where the Prime Minister has
mentioned and the Workers Party MP also
acknowledged in your speech but also
pointed out there are things that is
still work in progress and and the
governor will have to focus on and to
make it better and to improve so that is
the position and I don't see the need
for me to totally sum up I think their
MPs will be able to do in the old view
and to give their view and the eye
assessment and at the same time wherever
possible offer certain views and
alternative suggestion to improve the
policies
madam Speaker I am very grateful for the
extremely reasonable explanation from
the member I hope he takes an equally
reasonable approach when he comes to
election rallies because a Workers Party
approach has been to be extremely
reasonable indeed low profile and
Parliament but come election time to
turn into Tigers and heroes
madam Speaker I thank the Prime Minister
for praising the workers party's ability
to fight in the elections we have no
intention to hire a saw in Parliament we
seek the band aid for people to come to
Parliament to check against the
government and we have Dundee honestly
and sincerely we have not done this face
into into a theatre that shows we are
responsible we will behave continuously
as a rational and responsible party and
it members would I believe members will
agree that the Workers Party has been
rational we are not come here with some
war policies or worse objections we
debate the policies we came up with some
suggestions but these are not
bankrupting the government or suggesting
to use a reserved election I think we
also rational we don't accuse the PAP of
something that you cannot substantiate
or I know we can sue so I think we are
fine and election these elections and I
thank the Minister for publicist for
noting that we can finally I'm sure that
we happy tend to you are the government
and you have been the governing part for
50 years so you've got more much people
talented people than the Workers Party
how can you say that we are tiger and we
are something else in Parliament I'm
sure the PAP can equally be bygones it's
an eloquent explanation for why the
Workers Party has been inarticulate
about many things in a serious
Parliament the government presents its
policies the opposition presents its
alternatives the Workers Party may not
have alternatives on every issue you may
not have a full range of
all the complexities of designing an
HDTV scheme or MediShield scheme you do
have a responsibility to say which
direction are we going and that
direction has to be set clearly not to
explain to the PAP but to explain to
Singaporeans what you stand for and what
you stand for cannot be what the PAP is
doing and a little bit better that means
you have no stand wherever the PAP is
standing ask them to do better that's
easy I can do that too but where do you
stand where are we totally wrong where
do you think this is a completely
different way to do things better where
do you think in principle we do not want
Singapore to be like this these are big
issues which deserve to be debated and
not elided over and avoided in the house
and that is what a first world
Parliament should be about
madam Speaker granulated say that the
permanence is reasonable to say that the
workers party may not have come up we
ever come we ought alternative policy
that's true but to say that the Workers
Party has no position a major issue that
is not true I think we did state our
position in Parliament with debate we
debate her major policy vigorously we
didn't oppose all the policies but where
we think that there is a need for us to
oppose adding concern the future of
Singapore like the population white
paper we do so so we stay opposition on
important issues and we didn't oppose
four things that we think are doing
right he said not enough is useful to
bring it down to something very specific
let's come back to the population white
paper during the debate the position
taken by the Workers Party is that
enough is enough
zero growth we have continued to grow I
have not heard the Workers Party demand
zero growth today do you still demand
that or do you now think that we should
allow SMEs to survive in Singapore we
had made a calculation at a point time
of debating the population white paper
and if you continue to allow the
following workers to grow we were it
will be untenable in the future
generation future population growth and
they buy we decided that we need to keep
the population number in check and one
way of doing it of course is to freeze
the foreign workers growth in number our
calculation was that probably between
that existing number of the foreign
worker you can still move around with
some sectors I mean only so much of
foreign worker and thereby you can still
get by with the zero population
jir pour on worthless bro we understand
perfectly the possibility and the
trade-off that is our position at a
point in time we have not objected
subsequently or grieve the government
fault
why are not doing it because that's our
view that it should have zero population
growth but the government decided
otherwise there's a way of doing it we
have said our peace but we have to
respect the decision or a government to
move on but our message has got across
we cannot sub sin continuously the kind
of population group plan the government
is our planning and I'm glad to hear
today that you know Prime Minister
saying that we are the government is the
king of a serious view or tightening and
watching the grow up population madam
Speaker after all this complicated
explanation I don't know whether miss
alodia can still stands by what was said
in Parliament in the white paper debate
last year because if he really does
after all the explanation he should say
we have too many foreign workers now
sent home seventy thousand then we will
know where he stands
but after telling me that you can
massage this and some people can do less
and others can do and we'll need more
that's easy to say who's going to do the
massaging of course the government and
that is the mark of a substandard
opposition
madam Speaker I disagree this is on the
map of a substance substandard position
this is the map of an OP responsible
position not a gem of the government
allowing the government after giving our
view debating it allowing the government
to move forward not to jam up the
government so it is a map of responsible
government and a map of first world
Parliament madam Speaker we have to call
a spade a spade if you have changed the
position and your previous position was
wrong say so if you hold by opposition
have your guts to reaffirm it and take
their consequences
but the weasel Louie play with words
avoid the issue and then claim to be
responsible that is what we fear can
drive Singapore's politics into the same
place where every many other countries
have gone